---
title: REST
date: 2022-07-27 00:00:00 -500
categories: [Programming]
tags: [REST] # TAG names should always be lowercase
img_path: /assets/posts/
---

## HTTP

Hypertext Transfer Protocol

HTTP is an **application layer protocol** for sending and receiving messages over a network.

It is a TCP/IP based protocal, and it is used to deliever contents, for example, images, videos, documents, .etc.

You can think it as the _messenger_ of the web.

Three important things about HTTP:

1. Connectionless: after making the request, the client disconnect from the server, then when the response is ready, the server re-establish the connection again and deliver the response.
2. Can deliver any sort of data, as long as the two computers can read it.
3. Stateless. The client and server know about each other just during the current request. If it closes and they want to connect again, they need to provide information to each other again, and the connection is handled as the very first one.

A typical HTTP message includes three parts:

1. Start line
   Request: method, URI, HTTP version
   Response: HTTP version, status code
2. Headers: name-value pairs
3. Body.

## URI, URL, URN

### URI (Uniform Resource Identifier)

It is a string of characters used to identify a resource on the internet either by location or by name, or both.

It's kinda like identify a person via his name or living address.

> Cody Wilson
> 2500 Alma St

### URL (Uniform Resource Locator)

It is a string of characters but it just refers to the address.

It's the most used way to locate resources on the web.

> 2500 Alma St

Required components:

- the protocol
- the domain

Optional components:

- the path
- the port
- query strings and fragments

### URN (Uniform Resource Name)

It is a string of characters but it just refers to the address.

> Cody Wilson

It is ineffective because resources can have the same name.

### Relationship

URL and URN are a subset of URI by definition.

## Web Services

Web services are a set of rules and technologies that enable two or more components **on the web** to talk to each others.

A web service is defined by rules like:

1. How software components will talk?
2. What kind of messages they will send to each other?
3. How requests and responses will be handled?

## API

Application Programming Interface.
An API is a way to let software components to talk to each other.

It can be in anything in any form. The only thing it has to be is that it has to be a way to communicate with a software component.

For example, it can be attributes and methods in an object. An other form is the command-line interface in an operating system.

Based on the definition of web services, we can find web services are just APIs.

So REST API = REST web service

## REST

Representational State Transfer

### How does HTTP relate to REST?

- HTTP is an application layer protocal for sending and receiving messages over a network.
- In HTTP, we can use GET method for all sorts of interactions.
- REST is a way to implement HTTP, it dictates how distributed systems on the web should communicate.

### How does the Web relate to REST?

- REST is the underlying architecture of the Web.

### Questions every API should answer

1. How can the client tell the service provider which operation it wants to perform? (Method Information)

REST answer: The method information should be expressed in the HTTP verb.

Not RESTful: GET api/users/delete/:userid
RESTful: DELETE api/users/:userid

2. How can the client tell the service provider what data to operate on? (Scoping information)

REST answer: The scoping information should go in the URI.

In REST, everything that a client can operate on is called their resource.

## REST API

### why

It can help the team form a consensus, reduce chaos due to personal habits.

### characteristics

- It uses HTTP methods suitably (GET for getting data, POST for creating...)
- Scoping Information (and other data) goes in the parameters part of URI
- It uses common data formats (most commonly JSON)
- Communication is stateless (the server doesn't maintain the state of the client)

### some rules

1. use nouns not verbs
   Don'ts:
   ```
   /getAllEpics/
   /getAllFinishedEpics/
   /createEpic/
   /updateEpic/
   ```
   Dos:
   ```
   GET /epics/
   GET /epics?state=finished/
   POST /epics/
   PUT /epics/5/
   ```
2. two levels to describe the same resources
   ```
   /epics
   /epics/5
   ```
3. use nouns in plural form
   `GET /stories/`
4. return the actual data under the key "data"
   ```
   {"data": {"id": 1, "name": "cody"}}
   ```
5. use query strings for all the optional or complex params
