---
title: Trie
date: 2022-06-01 00:00:00 -500
categories: [Leetcode]
tags: [Trie] # TAG names should always be lowercase
img_path: /assets/posts/
---

- [208. Implement Trie (Prefix Tree)](<https://github.com/yankun-song/leetcode/blob/main/Solutions/0208.%20Implement%20Trie%20(Prefix%20Tree).md>)

  Basic Trie construction. The most common way to use a Trie. Have a `TrieNode` class and a `Trie` class.

- [1804. Implement Trie II (Prefix Tree)](<https://github.com/yankun-song/leetcode/blob/main/Solutions/1804.%20Implement%20Trie%20II%20(Prefix%20Tree).md>)

  Two kinds of solution. Can only have a `Trie` class, so each node will have access to all the methods, enabling we call a method recursively. Or stick to the two classes way, but need to add a _start_with_ property to the `TrieNode` class to have it store more information.

- [648. Replace Words](https://github.com/yankun-song/leetcode/blob/main/Solutions/0648.%20Replace%20Words.md)

  Application of Trie.

- [211. Design Add and Search Words Data Structure](https://github.com/yankun-song/leetcode/blob/main/Solutions/0211.%20Design%20Add%20and%20Search%20Words%20Data%20Structure.md)

  Harder application. Have to call the method recursively, so use one class only.

- [677. Map Sum Pairs](https://github.com/yankun-song/leetcode/blob/main/Solutions/0677.%20Map%20Sum%20Pairs.md)

  Harder application. Have to call the method recursively, so use one class only.

## why we need Trie?

Although hash table has O(1) time complexity for looking for a key, it is not efficient in the following operations :

1. Finding all keys with a common prefix.
2. Enumerating a dataset of strings in lexicographical order.

Another reason why trie outperforms hash table, is that as hash table increases in size, there are lots of hash collisions and the search time complexity could deteriorate to O(n), where n is the number of keys inserted.

Trie could use less space compared to Hash Table when storing many keys with the same prefix. In this case using trie has only O(m) time complexity, where m is the key length.

Searching for a key in a balanced tree costs O(mlogn) time complexity.
